COVID-19 interview with XXXXXXXXXX
Interviewer: Rupert Lescott (RL)
Interviewee: XXXXXX (XX)
RL: What I would like to do is,if you could come up with maybe 3 or 4 topics and then we would
explore each one in turn. And the aim of this is to get narrative as in a description of what
happened certainly... good crucially what you and your colleagues have learned...And if we had
a magic wand and could go back in time, armed with what you have learned, what would you
have done differently and also what should we as a firm do in the future with that learning,
Whether that is dealing with a second wave or another black Swan event that has such an
impact. Do you have any suggestions or things that we should discuss? What are those topics,
those ideas that we should look into?
XX: Yeah I do actually. I think we found out a lot about ourselves as a firm in the last 3 months.
And I would include within that, that our system of knowing where our people are, at any one
point in time is non-existent. So that would be my first point, I don't see how you can have a
firm of our standing, and that claims to care about its people and does in many respects. It
claims to care about its people but then doesn't know where they all are. I just have a problem
with that so that's my first point.
RL: Okay, thank you. Next one?
XX: Next one is mental health. So I think what we've learned is that we don't really have a way
to help people, systematically. I think we talk a lot about it and we try...and we provide coaches
and gurus and things on webcasts But I don't think we have a real answer. And I'm probably
being harsh there because I don't think any organization does. But I think we can do a better
job.
RL: Sure. Okay…
XX: My third point would be we have a fragmented approach within the firm in the Middle East.
And when you get YYYY on this topic he will talk for a long time. The way that we respond in the
firm is one way and then you have a group like...There are other parts of the firm like XXXXXXX
which seem to operate like separate entities, which means that when we tried to give firmwide
messages, it's not easy to know that there's a consistent way of doing things around the firm, in
every part of the firm.
RL: Yeah…
XX: Which probably takes me on to my next point which is that we have a regional model,
Where we have 12 countries and 26 offices and 6000 people and you’re not always sure that it's
a consistent message in every country probably quite as you might want it to be. In as much as

1

there seem to be local preferences, authorities etc. not always consistent with what we would
want at group level. If I can put it that way…
RL: Sure…
XX: Ermm, what else shall I say? I mean I think there's some really obvious points… We've
found out that our technology is better than we ever imagined. And while that's overridingly a
good thing, I think it's asking a huge question about our model...our operating model and how
We work in the future and is it a combination of working from home and office? Or office and a
little bit of working from home? Is it a huge amount of working from home and the occasional
trip to the office? Or do we have any idea of what that looks like as an operating model going
forward?
And I think the other thing that comes to mind is the whole ‘fly-in/fly-out’ and travel situation, at
least for the short term but maybe deeper than that. We start to wonder, is this sustainable as a
model? Not only because of the difficulties and challenges of traveling; Working, or having an
employment contract in one country and 5 days a week in another country. Does that work?
Does it work having your family away from you? And particularly if you're going to be stuck and
not being able to travel - is that sustainable? Do we need to rethink our whole model of where
people are located and employed and live? And, you know, try and stay close to our clients. So
I think there are some fundamental questions that are being raised, that we’re starting to think
about for the first time.
RL: Okay, great.
XX: That's what I'll chuck out there as my initial sort of thoughts.
RL: No, that's great! So, now what we’ll do is we'll go back and go into each of those in some
sort of depth, in a sense, okay?...
KNOWING WHERE OUR PEOPLE ARE
The first point that you said is about knowing where our people are...and you said that that was
non-existent, effectively. And clearly there's an issue that so what mechanism or message or
attempt do we have currently, to know where people are, if any?
XX: So it's pretty manual...we have some people that book through our official system, which is
(you may or may not know this) KDS. So, for those, we should know where they are, because if
they book through the official system...trouble is though, that they might change flights… So,
you've got original flights, deletions and then new flights.. It's almost a mission impossible to
know which flight anybody actually took. And then, we don't really track people via hotels so We
don't really know and then there's a bunch of people who don’t book via the official system so
we don't know where they are...And then there's a huge number of people who go on personal
travel so we don't know where they are and maybe we shouldn't. Then, when something like

2

this hits, we're scrambling to find out where they are via people partners in various lines of
service, Whatsapps, just trying to track people down. I don't know, I just don't think that's
appropriate. I just don't think that works. I think in this day and age, you know, if something
happens in a country, we should press a button, we should know who is in that country, where
they are, where they are staying, and we should be able to deal with that. I just think It's not
acceptable for us to be in the position we're in. [9.04]
RL: And let's be clear - obviously you've worked within PWC, as in the network, for many years.
Going up on your experience in the UK - Not that we went through this when you were back
working there - but is this PwC thing, or a PwC Middle East thing? How does it differ?
XX: I actually think...I don't know the answer to that because I wasn't doing the same job in the
UK so I wouldn't be that close to what was going on, so from my own experience of booking
travel from when I was client-facing in the UK, You did it through the official channels or you
didn't get your expenses paid, so there's more discipline. There's much more booking through
the official systems and the flexibility that we provide people in the Middle East is way beyond
what I think we should be doing. That's my honest view.
RL: Is it the case that there is a system or expectation in place? So for example, you could
either have, there is no policy or expectation… Or, there is one - we’re just not complying with it.
Which of those is…?
XX: It's a mixture. First, there is no system around personal travel; we don't ask peo ple where
they going and we don't track it, and there is a system for business travel but people don’t
comply...or, I should say, 60% or 70% of people comply but there's a huge number who don't
and therefore you've got a broken system.
RL: Did you notice any patterns? Are there any patterns in terms of non-compliance? Whether
that’s Line of Service, or business unit or in terms of seniority? You don't need to name people
as such but did you notice a common theme in any of that?
XX: I think it's across the board…This is on our radar to try to sort out But it seems like it's stuck
in very difficult territory so I would say that there's a project that's sort of trying to get at this but I
think we need to make it happen.
RL: Okay, and once things started, what sort of measures did we take to address the fact that
we didn't know where people were? I mean, how was that resolved, if it all?
XX: Oh, so YYYY had to go and build a list of where everybody was. By linking it with the LoS
leaders, you know, like old-style. It's ‘ring around and try and see where people are’, And try
and track them down and then verify the information. I mean it's just crazy that in 2020 it takes
a few days for you to work out where your people are. I just think that's crazy, isn't it? I mean
am I the only one that thinks that's crazy? That's a joke!

3

RL: Sure, okay, and on this topic in particular what you think you and your colleagues
collectively have learned? And therefore, what should we do differently in the future?
XX: I think there's a couple of things. I think there are some areas that we've known about, and
we haven't solved them because they're not easy to solve. So, we sort of dance around them
and we don't address them. And that's evident when you come to this situation and you need
that list straight away so you can communicate with people and deal with things and try to help
them. But it's difficult to help people when you don't know where they are. So I think it’s shown
that there are things that we know about that we need to put some energy into addressing. And
I think what we've also learned is that it's very easy to get distracted and just move on and you
don’t fix things.
RL: Hmm, okay, and are there plans in place? Is there anything specific to address this?
And/or should there be?
XX: The difficulty here is that you're talking about people's behavior and a lot of people around
the firm changing their behavior i.e. it may not suit them because they like to book their own
flights on their own credit cards in their own time, for their own purposes. And that doesn't really
work, so you're talking about changing hundreds of people, potentially, in the way that they
operate. And maybe those people, I'm afraid to say, are partners? So it comes from the top
and it comes from those people that should know better.
So in my world I would just say right, there's no payment if people book their own flights...there's
no expenses for that. Full stop. End of story. But that's not quite how the firm works and so we
never really address these things. So I would love the leadership, from the top, from the Senior
Partner (and we have discussed this at the leadership team - you know, the fact that we have
an issue here), I would love him to say that's our policy we're not going to put up with this
anymore. We have to have a better system to know where everybody is. Make it happen. Sort
it out.
MENTAL HEALTH
RL: Sure, okay, thank you. Thank you very much. Moving on to mental health...and again, I
was taking some rough notes. You said, “We don't have a way of helping people
systematically. We talk a lot; we try; we provide coaches on webcasts etc. but that's not a real
answer. I'm not sure any organization has a real answer to it.” So, could you expand on that,
please?
XX: So, let's look at the positives first. I think it's great that we've had a discussion about it; that
it’s come up and people have been forthcoming to talk about it. I think, in the Middle East, It's
been a topic that's been difficult to talk about, from what I understand. Whereas in the UK it’s
part of the language now...It's very acceptable for people to say that they've got mental health
problems and openly talk about it and focus on it. So I think it's been really good actually that
the Middle East, for whatever reason...I don't understand all the culture and everything so I'm

4

not going to pretend that I do...it's been a difficult topic for people to talk about. But, thankfully
and I think a really positive thing is that it's been talked about pretty much every week, if not on
every webcast that Hani and the leadership team do, every other one.
I think we've tried everything - I think we've tried people talking, external people talking, about
how they run their lives and tips they give us. And we’ve got some internal people in the firm as
well, which is great, who do yoga and breathing and all that sort of meditation stuff. But it
doesn't seem to me that we've got a packaged approach. We don't have a story; we don't have
a narrative that I can personally relate to, that I can explain to anybody else or that I can explain
to myself. I don't know what, what are we trying to say? Are we trying to say it's OK to talk
about mental health I think so. But I don't know what our tagline is. Again I think there's
something very important here that says, this is an area we are going to focus on...we do have
some tools and techniques and tips and we’re going to draw all those together. And if you want
people to talk to, here are your people; you know, we have helplines, we have people - internal
or external - to help you. If we had a package of something like that I think that's a more
cohesive story. At the moment, we have bits over here; we have people that are here; we have
people on this webcast, people on that webcast - I don't know what it all means. And so I
struggle with what's the coherent story? What are we trying to do to help our people?
RL: I’m conscious of the topic and the need for confidentiality but are there any manifestations
of the shortcomings that you describe? For example, I don't know what insights you get or what
access you get to a loss of resources or people unable to work because of all sorts of reasons.
Is there anything anecdotal or datawise to suggest that there was and is a problem with this?
XX: I think there very much is. You know the GPS survey, the people survey, the Pulse survey?
I don't know if you guys filled it in but what was telling in the summer one that has just happened
- the problems that people are having work/life balance-wise, the score is very low.
Dramatically low. It's exacerbated as you say because of the lockdown but I think it was a
problem anyway. And I think that that tells us something very important. And the data does
show it; the attrition data doesn't, because people aren't leaving at the moment for obvious
reasons. When not seeing a big spike in attrition although, in brackets, before the lockdown I
think our attrition was way too high. I think it was close to 20% if I'm not mistaken. Now, I don't
know why that is and I'm sure there's a whole bunch of reasons for that. That's why I wonder if,
and this is better asked to HC, of course, whether the lack of focus on mental health and people
to talk to, the availability of that discussion, is something to do with that? I don't know.
RL: Whilst you've framed this in terms of what was missing, and one could infer that filling in
those gaps with what you said was missing is the answer, what would your recommendations
be from now on? You talked about a narrative. You talked about messaging but could you put a
few more ideas together in that regard?
XX: I'm not sure I have the answer. All I will say is that I think we need to have a more coherent
campaign. It feels to me like it's a bit reactive; it's a bit… We've got people who are stressed
and strained and they are, and we got a poor survey result in a particular area like work-life

5

balance, so we throw a whole lot of people on Webexes and think that's the answer? I don't
think that's the answer. I think you need a coordinated campaign, with appropriate resources
and we try and make sure that we take this seriously as a firm. For the good of our people.
RL: Just from personal experience, those of us that report to Sharat are on a call everyday at 5
o'clock. It's about 15 minutes we summarize our day you know how was your dayIt's not really
a work cool yes you talk about it will work but it's more about how you're doing and during the
lockdown we used to joke, you know, how was your weekend? Well for all of us, of course, it
was the same, you know, we hadn't done a thing! I found, as a new joiner and I do find those
firmwide calls the same - it gave me a sense of belonging and feeling part of something that I
think would have been missing if it wasn't for that because they didn't have a 5 o'clock meeti ng
when we were still in the office. I was just wondering, how have you remained connected with
people that work for you? What sort of frequency of engagement do you have, or indeed do
you?
XX: I think work’s been so busy that I'm interacting with my team pretty much every day
anyway. I mean, there are 60 of them so I talk to them in different ways, on different days. I
don't have time to check in with everybody everyday - that's just mission impossible. And I've
also got one million other things on my plate but I love the idea of this end of the day check-in.
I think it's a fabulous idea; I just question whether that's achievable across the board. Maybe it
is in the mini teams? But as you have more and more teams look after and as you have more
areas of responsibility, individually you get stretched and you can't do that. I can't do that
although I'd like to.
FRAGMENTED APPROACH AND CONSISTENCY
RL: Yes, fair enough. Now, you talked about...you said there was a fragmented approach. You
said that firmwide messaging becomes difficult when part of the organization doesn't follow or
engage in the same way. Could you expand on that, please?
XX: Yeah, it's not a big point for me but if you talk to YYYY, he's quite obsessed about this point
so it would be interesting to hear what he says. He gets quite worked up on this one. But I have
some sympathy for him because it sometimes feels that it's 2 firms wi thin one firm, so we've got
PwC and we've got XXXXXX and we've got PwC ways of doing things and we've got XXXXXXX
ways of doing things. And it feels like everything that we do in the PwC bit then has to be
replicated in the XXXXXX bit. And that's inefficient; it's potentially inconsistent. It's a huge
amount of work for somebody trying to do a Group role, getting the story...you know, in a
positive way, not in a controlling way. Although, there is an argument that says we should all be
doing similar things. And by the way, this is a very hot and difficult issue, for all sorts of reasons
as I'm sure you can imagine because XXXXXXX is/was a separate entity. It has its own identity
and culture and I'm not suggesting that we make it a PwC entity. But I do have a lot of sympathy
or desire that we streamline things for more consistency. So that’s where I put it. It’s not my top
priority.

6

RL: Let's imagine that we go through a second wave in a few months’ time, knowing what you
know now how would you say that we should do things differently?
XX: I think we know now who are the key people around the various countries (which will be the
next point), the various parts of the firm, where we need to do additional communications to
make sure that everybody’s getting the message. And I think there's no quick fix on this one and
there’s no immediate solution that will work in any meaningful way. So I think we're in
workaround territory. I think we're in ‘It's a pain but at least we know what the workaround is’.
So you can deal with the issue, both with this one and the fact that countries do very different
things. I mean partly because they’re in-country, this is my 4th point, but also the CSPs (i.e.
Country Senior Partners) have a particular way of doing things. I think whether you go Line of
Service or by geography, there are some key people in those entities who we need to plug into.
For example, in Saudi Arabia, it would be a guy called Mutaz who we would need to liaise with
to make sure that he was on board with what we were proposing. In XXXXXX, there’ll be
people that YYYY now works with, to give the message to XXXXXXX, so it’s a sort of same
solution to Number 3 and Number 4, if that makes sense?
RL: Sure, it sounds like that we've established connections or contacts across the region as a
result of this crisis we’ve gone through and what we didn’t know was who to speak to but we do
now and therefore can be more efficient or proactive in communicating across the region as a
result of that, is that right?
XX: Yeah I would say so. I would say that we didn't know that there were going to be such
differences between the PwC side and the XXXXXX side - at least, I’m talking for myself here. I
didn't know that there was such a ‘separate entity’ feel about XXXXXXX, although I probably
should have known. And I didn't know that the countries would be tending slightly to go and do
their own thing, whether that’s travel policy, when they shut the office, when they open the
office, whether they make people wear masks in the office. I think there’s a variability that I had
not anticipated, maybe because I’m still learning? And we figured this out over the last three
months that you need to plug in to the right people, and keep communicating with them all the
time. And that’s the workaround here.
RL: What things should be standard and with what things is it okay to have variation? Where
do you think we need to have a more common approach?
XX: That’s an interesting question. I think in the world of Risk, Quality, Business Resilience, if I
think even broader in my world, Information Security, I don’t there’s any room for local
interpretation. I really don't. I think there's one standard. It's the way that we're trying to look
after all our people in the firm to the max that we can and I don't see how that can be any
different to any part of the firm in any country or Line of Service. How can that be any different?
I don't know, I struggle.
RL: Sure, okay. Thank you. Now, we’ve kind of moved on to the next point - is there anymore
to add, do you think?

7

XX: No, I don't think so. I mean I think we've learned that you can put out all the messaging that
you want and you think that the CSPs will get it and follow and comply, if I can put it that way?
And then they may have their own local spin that they think it’s okay for people to go to the
office, and they think it’s okay for clients to come to their office, and they can on a bit of a local
’We need to do this’ explanation on things. And I think that’s kind of understandable but when
you look at the case numbers going up and you can look at we’re trying to protect our people,
that becomes unacceptable. And yet how do you tell senior partners that what they want to do is
not doable? It’s a skill in itself. So that’s where we need to find other ways to get messages
across, via the Managing Partner, via Hani., you know. You learn as you go. What I’ve learnt is
you sometimes have to find different ways to deal with an issue. And that’s, I guess, normal in
life.
RL: Sure, and I can infer a lot from that phrase and I don’t want to put words in your mouth.
Can you expand upon it? ‘Different way’ being, for example…?
XX: You can involve Senior Partners so that you have a discussion that exposes anybody’s
aggressive tendencies and tries to put them in a different context. So you can go the, sort of,
discussion approach and that sometimes works. You can go with a data approach, so you can
try and show the number of cases… you can show charts and things like that. And some
people react to that. Others don’t, if it doesn’t suit their line of thought. And I think you’ve just
got to also think about people’s personalities and how they might respond to certain ways of
talking to them, as opposed to other ways of talking to them. So I think it's the old story of,
you’ve got to figure out how to influence people, even though you think that there’s an obvious
answer that they should be complying with. I guess it’s all about the relationship side of life and
how do you sort out, in 12 countries and many different personalities and cultures? It’s a
fascinating part of our firm. At the same time, a tricky part of our firm, if I can put it that way.
RL: Sure, it's interesting, you talked about the number of cases and it brought me back to what
we're actually talking about here and therefore, and I hate to ask this and obviously don't name
names or anything but, to what extent has non-compliance with various requests, guidance,
policies or advice...to what extent has that resulted in cases? Clearly, you can’t automatically
say that because of this, that happened - I’m not suggesting that. People have caught this from
any number of places but is there a correlation? Could you see a pattern?
XX: We’ve had 24 cases now across the region, which isn’t bad. And I would say 99% of
people have been very sensible and there have been a couple of instances in that list where our
staff have done stupid things. So, that’s always going to happen. To go back to your question has that resulted from any sort of leadership miscommunication or interpretation, if I can put it
that way - not really, but that’s luck.
And I think that we've had clients go to our offices that we wouldn't have wanted - you can talk
to YYYY about this as well. We’ve had some of our people go to offices. For example, in Abu
Dhabi, there’s somebody who got the virus who was just not following our procedures.

8

Somebody in Dubai, in DIFC, got it, then potentially passed it on to 40 other people, not
following our procedures. So there’s a couple of instances of that and I think but it could have
been a lot worse and I think our concern would be, maybe we’ve been lucky.
RL: And therefore, again, thinking about a second wave, what could we do differently? Clearly,
some people didn't follow what was already put out there and a genuine, honest attempt was
made to give guidance to control this - and that applies to governments as well as
organisations, clearly - but, armed with what we’ve now learned from that, what would you want
to differently next time?
XX: Yeah, it's a really good question. I think - hey look, out of 6,000 people we’ve had 2 or 5 or
10 not comply, I would take that any day of the week. I think you’ve got to be happy with that
level of people following procedures. I mean, realistically, you’re always gonna have some
people that don’t read emails. So we put out daily emails as you’ve no doubt seen, since the
1st of March, trying to help people and trying to keep them out of trouble. And overridingly,
people have - we’ve been tracking the numbers - most people read them; over 4,000 people
read that email. I don't think there's anything else we could have done, honestly speaking, on
the comms side. Although I think there are some people that don't get our communications
because they weren't on the list and that is something we also learned that we need to get
everybody on the ‘Middle East all’ email; we didn't have everyone on it.
I do wonder though, and it's a question mark - I don't have the answer - the whole question
about communications and what do people have time to read? What has the most impact on
them? That's a really difficult question, which I'd love us to look at as a firm and I know that
Mona, our Chief People Officer, is looking at it. You know, in this day and age we’re
bombarded, aren’t we, by WhatsApps, SameTimes, HangOuts, chats, emails, phone calls - oh
my word, I don't know about you guys, it's just unbelievable. At times you just don't know where
to look, do you? It’s coming at you from every angle. So how do you get a message across to
people that is short and snappy and that they will listen to? I don’t know.
RL: Mmm. Just a point on that distribution list, how did you notice that not everyone was on it?
Was there a pattern in that? Was it a particular team or individuals that joined at a particular
point? And how did you rectify it?
XX: I can’t remember how we found it. I think it was one of our contractors, our longer-term
contractors who are on PwC emails. I can’t who I was talking to, I was talking to somebody and
he said what are you talking about, I don’t get the daily emails. And it sort of filtered through,
are people not getting this email? And then we checked and all the contractors...we checked
and they’re not on our email list. This was quite early on in the crisis, so we built an email
group. And all these people that should have been getting the mail, we added them to the daily
note and then we knew they were getting it from that on, so we learnt the hard way.
RL: I see, and therefore, that gap is closed now, for the future?

9

XX: Well it is, to the best of our knowledge. The problem is you don’t know who is not getting
the email because they don't know either.
FLY-IN/FLY-OUT MODEL ETC.
RL: Yes. You talk about the model, the fly-in/fly-out thing, The balance between working from
home working in the office etc, in terms of the influence that you have in your role, and the input
into the discussions about that, and Hani mentioned this on the last couple of calls...what are
your suggestions and ideas? Where do you think we should be headed?
XX: Okay, so I have a couple of angles on this one. My first angle is you need to have a
balance between people being close to clients and the quality of the people. And this is not
being rude because there are different education systems around the world and different
attitudes, capabilities, all the rest of it. but I think as a firm you've got to have enough highly
skilled people who are experienced and know what they're doing. And I'm not saying this is the
opposite for people in-country. You’ve got to have enough people on the ground close to clients
who also know what they’re doing. I think if you get that mixture right then you've got something
very precious so I don't think we've got that. At the moment we've got - we’re far too weighted to
a ‘fly in from Lebanon or the UAE into KSA’ model and I'm sure there's some very good people
that we could pick up in Saudi - Saudi nationals or expats in Saudi and I think we need to do
that.
My second angle is a legal angle. We have a number of people on contracts In the UAE or
Lebanon, particularly Lebanese, who have UAE contracts, who do most of their work in KSA. I
just don’t think that’s right.
RL: The advantage to that for them is what?
XX: Financial. And gets them home flights and all sorts of things that I don’t think are right. It’s
not right.
RL: I see, yes. Any other suggestions on the working from home, working in the office, fly-in/flyout thing?
XX: Yes, I guess the fly-in/fly-out thing is one aspect and a second one is the - what is our
office rhythm going forward? I don't think we've put our minds to what that looks like and I think
we should and my personal view is - but I'm probably a little bit old fashioned on this - I'm very
comfortable people working from home and I think they should, from time to time. But I'm also
very keen on teams and I like people working together. But I think there's a ‘being in the office
together’ feeling and camaraderie that has served the firm very well for a number of years and I
love that culture and I don't think we should mess with that culture. Having said that, I think
people should be free to work from home when they need to and I've always said that. So if you
mean that's nothing different it's what we had in the UK. For me, if you want to work from home
a day a week or 2 for a particular reason...Now I know it's very difficult to put rules around this

10

and I'm not suggesting you necessarily need to. I think some sort of guidance on this topic
would be useful. And it's a difficult topic because other people may have very different views to
what I’ve just said. They may say I'm working very happily from home and I want to stay
working from home, and I save the commute and I get much less hassle and I get a lot more
done. I happen to think personally that's fine but it's not really what our firm’s culture is about.
RL: Fair enough. We’ll wrap up very shortly but to what extent did you or YYYY or others, did
we learn from other firms in the network? We all went through this at various points, and what
we experienced in the UAE was different of a type to what was experienced in the UK and
elsewhere but there is a common theme there.
To what extent did we learn from each other and share what’s going on and ask questions from
others that are trying things? What kind of activity took place that enabled us to learn from one
another globally?
XX: Again, that’s a really good point and we need to remember that there are many other
people going through what we’re going through. This happens at a number of levels. I would
obviously have my counterparts - the other CROs, say, in the UK, who I’m close to and who I
talk to and then there are global calls where we get people on from China and Italy and Spain
when they went through it first up. So we were getting quite a lot of live data on how they were
coping with it. So there's that kind of level - you’re getting access to how other firms are dealing
with it; You then have the Territory Senior Partner calls where Hani is invited with the global
people and you hear how the countries are dealing with it at the top leadership level. And then
you have packs being circulated about what people are doing and how they're responding And
that was largely from China and Hong Kong to start with and then merged and there were other
packs we got from Germany, Luxembourg and other firms.
And then at YYYY’s level, he’s plugged into his Global Security and Business Resilience
counterparts, so he was on probably monthly calls with them to share materials and thoughts so
I think there’s actually quite a lot.
And YYYY’s also got his local network in the Middle East, so he knows people from other firms,
which I’ve always thought is really valuable, to know what other people are doing around the
place. I think quite a lot, would be my summary. It's a bit sort of random; it's a bit typical PwC.
It's sort of informal but it works. If you plugged into the networks and you know people to talk to
And you pick up the phone to them you always get a good response. People are always happy
to share. I can just pick up the phone and I did to my counterpart in Ireland, to find out what are
you guys doing and just bounce some thoughts off you. You probably notice this already or, if
you haven't then you will, it's a very networked firm. If you know the right people, pick up the
phone; you always get a response.
RL: And those people, are they personal contacts? Is it trial and error? Was there any
structure around that, or was it just a question of trying to compile one yourself?

11

XX: Well there’s a whole host of networks. In whatever role you’re in. There's a network of
CROs that I know anyway. Does a network of business resilience people who YYYY knows.
You know, the firm’s quite good at making that easy for people. And if you get on the global
calls, you can get all the access you like. And then there are Spark sites and Google+ sites that
you can get hold of stuff. I mean you have to make a bit of effort; don't get me wrong. But that's
true of anything in life. You have to look for it. I don't know if there are other ways to do it. You
have to make an effort but if you make the effort, you will find the materials.
You probably think there are better ways, Rupert, and you probably should, in terms of the
knowledge management disciplines that you would bring hopefully. We're not that great at
knowledge management, which is probably another topic we'll talk about separately. It's there.
It's there if you want to access it in the firm, you can find it.

12

